server sent events documentation (#307)
valtimo-platform/valtimo-documentation: extending-valtimo/server-sent-events.md

# Server sent events

> Server sent events is a paradigm used to send information from the server to the client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server-Sent Events (SSE) is a paradigm used to send information from the server to the client
```

without an explicit request. 

As such Valtimo provides an implementation of Server sent events to allows

> web clients to listen to specific events or for implementations to create their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
web clients to listen to specific events, and can be used by implementations to create their
```

> own events to be sent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
own events.
```

### Creating events

> To create events implementations only need to extend the BaseSseEvent class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create events, implementations need to extend the `BaseSseEvent` class
```

> and add any number of properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional properties can be added if needed.
```

```kotlin
abstract class BaseSseEvent(val eventType: String) //provided by Valtimo

class CampaignSseEvent(
        val offerId: UUID,
        val offerDescription: String
    ) : BaseSseEvent("NEW_OFFER_EVENT") //example implementation
```

### Sending events

Valtimo provides a Spring Bean as a service to allow for events to be sent to
subscribers.

> To do so Valtimo the SseSubscriptionService bean can be used as in the example bellow.

Reviewer 2: This sentence doesn't make sense as-is

Author: what do you mean?

Author: > While there's still some details to be discussed about security, maybe you could add that no sensitive data should be transferred using these events.

@theo-ritense i've added a commit with a disclaimer to address this. please review

```kotlin
@Component
class CampaignService(val sseSubscriptionService: SseSubscriptionService){
    
    fun evaluateOfferAndNotifyUser(user: User){
        val offer: Offer = evaluateUser(user)
        if(offer.isAppliable()){
            sseSubscriptionService.notifySubscribers(
                CampaignSseEvent(
                    offer.id,
                    offer.description
                )
            )
        }
    }
    
}
```

### Client subscription to events

> Valtimo provides public apis to subscribe to events that are fired by the Server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Valtimo provides public APIs to subscribe to events that are fired by the server
```

An event stream will be established and events will be listened to by the subscriber
```
GET https://valtimo-host/api/v1/sse 
GET https://valtimo-host/api/v1/sse/{subscriptionId}
```

After the connection is established the subscriptionId can be retrieved from the event
as used to reconnect/reestablish.

![Established connection](img/established-connection.png)

> If the subscription id is used to establish a connection all the events that were fired while disconnected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the subscription ID is used to establish a connection, all the events that were fired while disconnected
```

# Server sent events

Server-Sent Events (SSE) is a paradigm used to send information from the server to the client
without an explicit request. 

Valtimo provides an implementation of SSE to allow
web clients to listen to specific events, and can be used by implementations to create their
own events.

### Creating events

To create events, implementations need to extend the `BaseSseEvent` class
Additional properties can be added if needed.

> ```kotlin

Reviewer: Code examples should be in java.

Reviewer: It's what we agreed on as a team. Please change it. If there are other examples of code being in Kotlin in the documentation, we should change those instances as well.

abstract class BaseSseEvent(val eventType: String) //provided by Valtimo

class CampaignSseEvent(
        val offerId: UUID,
        val offerDescription: String
    ) : BaseSseEvent("NEW_OFFER_EVENT") //example implementation
```

### Sending events

Valtimo provides a Spring Bean as a service to allow for events to be sent to
subscribers.

> To do so SseSubscriptionService bean can be used as in the example bellow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do so, SseSubscriptionService bean can be used as in the example below.
```
